## Host Enumeration

- **SYN Scan (-sS)**:  Also known as a half-open or stealth scan, it sends SYN packets to initiate a connection and waits for the target's response without completing the handshake.
	
	- **Use case**: Faster and stealthier than a full TCP connection scan, as it doesn't complete the three-way handshake. It actively probes for open ports, generating the meaningful response Nmap needs for OS detection and service enumeration


- **ACK Scan (-sA)**: Sends ACK packets to check if a port is filtered or unfiltered, but it does not determine if the port is open or closed.
	
	- **Use case**: Used to map firewall rules and determine whether packets can pass through. It is not designed to detect open ports or perform OS fingerprinting.


- **TCP Connect Scan (-sT)**: Completes the full three-way handshake with the target.
	
	- **Use case**: Useful when SYN scan requires privileges, but it is more detectable and slower since it completes the connection.

### Easy-lab IDS/IPS evasion
To evade firewall and IDS/IPS we use a stealth scan, avoid overt pinging, mimick trusted traffic and limit auxiliary activity like DNS lookups.
```bash
nmap <target_ip> -O -sS -Pn --source-port 53 --disable-arp-ping -n
```
**Flags:**
- `-O` (OS Detection): Enables operating system detection.
- `-sS` (SYN Scan): Perfroms a stealthy half-open scan.
- `-Pn` (Skip Host Discovery): Treats all hosts as online and skips host discovery (pinging). Useful if ICMP echo requests are blocked by the firewall
- `--source-port 53`: Spoofs the source port of the packets to 53 (DNS). Some firewalls allow DNS traffic.
- `--disable-arp-ping`: Disables ARP discovery.
- `-n`: Disables reverse DNS resolution for the scanned IPs. Makes it faster.

### Medium/hard-lab IDS/IPS evasion
``` bash
nmap <target_ip> -sS -sV -Pn -n --source-port 53 -T 2 --disable-arp-ping -p 53
```
In this Nmap command, rate-limit was added. By using the `-T 2` flag, we reduce the speed but increase the stealth of the scan.

Other techniques for evasion can be:
1. Randomize Scans:
	- Use `--scan-delay` or `--max-rate` to slow down and randomize scan timing.
2. Fragment Packets:
	- Use `-f` to fragment packets and make them harder to analyze.
3. Set Decoys:
	- Use `-D` to add decoy IPs, masking the true source of the scan.
	- Example use `-D RND:10` to generate 10 random decoys.
4. Avoid High-Frequency Scanning:
	- Avoid scanning too many ports at once; focus on the most critical ones (`--top-ports`).